sudo su -l:when ever went to root user that time you will enter the command	
pwd->present working directort it will show you where you are 
linux is case sensitive
uname->if you give uname it will tell us which operating system you are in so you are in linux operating system
uname -a->it will give you full information
sudo--super user do
apt--advanced package tool
ls: List files and directories in the current directory.

cd: The cd command is used to change the current directory.

pwd: Print the current working directory.

mkdir: Create a new directory.

rmdir: The rmdir command is used to delete a directory.

cp:The cp command is used to copy a file or directory.

cp -r :copy files in one directory to another subfoloder forcely

mv:The mv command is used to move a file or a directory form one location to another location.

rm: Remove files 
rm -r:remove  directories.

touch: Create an empty file or update the access and modification times of an existing file.

cat: Display the contents of a file.

more / less: Display the contents of a file one screen at a time.

head -n <filename>:The head command is used to display the content of a file. It displays the first 10 lines of a file.


tail -n <filename>: Display the last few lines of a file.

grep "word" <filename>: the grep command searches for a specified pattern  in one or more files 
grep stands --Global Regular Expression Print.

find: Search for files and directories based on various criteria.

chmod: The chmod command is used to change the permissions of files and directories
ex:chmod <permissions> <file-or-directory>

chown: The chown command is used to change the ownership of files and directories.
ex:sudo chown <new-owner> <file-or-directory>
id:The id command is used to display the user ID (UID) and group ID (GID).

date:The date command is used to display date, time, time zone, and more.

cal:The cal command is used to display the current month's calendar with the current date highlighted.

sleep:The sleep command is used to hold the terminal by the specified amount of time. By default, it takes time in seconds.

time:The time command is used to display the time to execute a command.

clear: clear command is used to clear the terminal screen.

exit:exit command is used to exit from the current shell.

ps: Display information about currently running processes.

top: Display a dynamic view of system processes and resource usage.

kill: Terminate processes using their process IDs (PIDs).

nano / vi / vim: Text editors for creating and editing files.

wget url: Download files from the internet.

curl url: Transfer data to or from a server using various protocols.

ssh: Connect to a remote server securely using the SSH protocol.

scp: Securely copy files between local and remote hosts using SSH.

df: Display information about disk space usage.

du: Display disk usage of files and directories.

tar: Compress or decompress files and directories into a single archive file.

zip / unzip: Create or extract zip compressed files.

ping: Test network connectivity to a host.

ifconfig / ip: Display or configure network interfaces.

sudo: Execute a command with superuser (root) privileges.

useradd: Add a new user account.
sudo useradd <username>
usermod: The usermod command is used to modify user account properties
sudo usermod -d <new-home-directory> <username>
passwd: Change a user's password.
sudo passwd <username>
userdel: The userdel command is used to delete a user account.

Example: sudo userdel <username>
history: Display the command history.

groupadd:The groupadd command is used to create a user group.
getent passwd:The getent passwd command in Linux is used to retrieve user account information from the system's account databases
 gpasswd -d kumar developer:remove user from group

how to insatll visualcode in ubuntusoftware
-------------------------------------------

by using this command sudo snap install --classic code
terminal ask the password and give password the vs is installed

how to install chrome
------------------
1.sudo apt update
2.sudo apt upgrade
3.wget --version
4.sudo apt install wget
5.wget https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
6.sudo dpkg -i google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
7.google-chrome

how to install mysql
--------------------
1 sudo apt update
2 sudo apt upgrade
3 sudo apt install python3 python3-pip mysql-server libmysqlclient-dev
4 sudo mysql -u root -p
5.create database databasename
6.CREATE user 'ashu'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'Admin2k';
7 GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON crmdb.* TO 'ashu'@'localhost';
8.FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
9.exit




